# Boring ## 2018/05/21 11:29Some recent reading...> There is perhaps one good argument for using Docker. It is hidden by the > many bad arguments for using Docker. I&#146;m going to try to explain why so > much Docker rhetoric is stupid, and then look at what reason might be good.> > [Docker is the dangerous gamble which we will regret][docker-danger]Sometimes boring is better...> What do Docker, CoreOS, and ECS have in common? All three are relatively > new technologies. Some might even call them &#147;bleeding edge&#148; (I won&#146;t). > In any case, all three are the opposite of boring&#8202;&#151;&#8202;they&#146;re rather hip > and shiny. The point of this article is that, when it comes to > technology, sometimes boring is actually better.> > [Sometimes Boring is Better][boring-better]... and choose boring technology> If you choose to write your website in NodeJS, you just spent one of > your innovation tokens. If you choose to use MongoDB, you just spent one > of your innovation tokens. If you choose to use service discovery tech > that's existed for a year or less, you just spent one of your innovation > tokens. If you choose to write your own database, oh god, you're in trouble.> > [Choose Boring Technology][boring-tech]Ship Small Diffs> I&#146;ll make the case for one practice that works very well operationally: > deploying small units of code to production on a regular basis. I think > that your deploys should be measured in dozens of lines of code rather > than hundreds.> > [Ship Small Diffs][ship-small]Docker in Production: A history of failure> The docker adoption started with minor new services. At first, > everything worked fine in dev, in testing and in production. The kernel > panics slowly began to happen as more web services and web applications > were dockerized. The stability issues became more prominent and > impactful as we grew.> > [Docker in Production: A history of failure][docker-fail]Is Kubernetes too complicated?> Like a lot of other tech that has ostensibly come out of google, it will > likely have at least one major source of complexity that 95% of people > do not need and will not want. I've not gone looking for a custom > implementation of http/2 with a broken congestion window, but maybe one > will turn up.> > Many of the problems that Kubernetes provides abstractions for, as > opposed to solutions for, will age gracelessly as consensus grows on how > to approach them. The balkanization of cluster management systems will > fade as consensus solves by convention what is currently open to experimentation.> > [Is Kubernetes too complicated?][k8s-2][k8s-2]: http://jmoiron.net/blog/is-k8s-too-complicated/[docker-fail]: https://thehftguy.com/2016/11/01/docker-in-production-an-history-of-failure/[ship-small]: https://blog.skyliner.io/ship-small-diffs-741308bec0d1[boring-tech]: http://mcfunley.com/choose-boring-technology[boring-better]: https://medium.com/production-ready/sometimes-boring-is-better-d16d38214186[docker-danger]: http://www.smashcompany.com/technology/docker-is-a-dangerous-gamble-which-we-will-regret## CategoriesTechnology, Docker