# Cave Story

## 2012/01/24 13:23

It's good. It's very very good. Normally I'm skeptical about 
[much-hyped][1] games but the hype is justified. I've been playing this 
on and off for the past few days. It's a real old-school side-scrolling 
run-and-gun platformer with some adventure elements (go talk to people 
and figure out how to progress to next stage, fetch quests etc). 

It's amazingly well designed. I was wary about its difficulty because I 
was playing the Demo version which (obvious in retrospect) has no save 
points. I paid 10 euro for the full version on WiiWare and am happy to 
report there are plenty of save points. The difficulty level seems to be 
pitched just perfectly. I've died many many times over but the game-play 
is so good I keep coming back. This is easily better than New Super 
Mario Bros for Wii. The only way it could be improved is by adding 
2-player co-op. Where am I in the game? I've just escaped from the 
Labyrinth, have returned to Mimiga Village (the escape was grueling for 
reasons I won't say - it would spoil the story) and am getting my arse 
kicked repeatedly trying to make my way through (the much altered) Egg 
Corridor to defeat the two boss dragons. I haven't given up yet but I 
could really use a save point and missile reload just before 
encountering the bosses. 

That's one other thing about the game - it never seems unfair. There is 
one section where after a long battle with a boss, I died due to 
environmental hazards (won't spoil it for you). My initial reaction was 
"Huh?" and "What the fuck?", but the game goes somewhere you don't 
expect - to a surprisingly poignant place. 

The playability, controls, graphics and music are all pitch perfect and 
the game world is immense. If this was the product of Nintendo or a 
high-end highly-staffed game studio it would be great. That it is the 
product of [a single individual programmer][2] is - quite frankly - 
mind-blowing. 

As good as this game is on the Wii and as perfectly suited to the Wii 
Remote (held sideways - buttons and d-pad only - no motion control - 
phew!), I'd love to play this on iPad with the iCade cabinet - *that* 
would be perfect.

[1]: http://www.destructoid.com/why-cave-story-is-the-greatest-videogame-ever-169018.phtml
[2]: http://www.brainygamer.com/the_brainy_gamer/2010/03/the-cave-story-story.html

## Categories
Gaming, Cave Story, Wii
