# Fork Me## 2014/02/04 11:29I think I maybe love <https://github.com/> too much.Of all the online services I use, the one which has become truly indispensible is GitHub. Over the past 2 years, I've grown from an occasional to a rabid user of the service. GitHub gets everything right. Its use of Markdown for documentation? - Perfect. Perhaps what I like best about GitHub is that it has so far been resilient to the usual influx of social media types that infect most social networks. It has also (for now) stayed under the radar of Recruitment consultants, though I suspect recruitment firms are aware of github but just haven't figured out how to mine it the way they've mined LinkedIn. What github have done is nothing short of miraculous. They've taken version-control - the bane of most developers existence (though absolutely necessary of course) - and made it social. GitHub has in a short space of time become the canonical source for most open-source projects. It succeeds brilliantly where others (e.g. SourceForge) failed.  Every time I see the [Fork me on Github][badge] badge on a website I see a veiled plea for some kind of immortality. I think it's only a matter of time before 'Fork me on github' is engraved on a headstone. The phrase 'Fork me on Github' is developer parlance for 'I will not go gently into that good night'. It offers the promise of immortality, that our work at least will outlive us. It pampers to the polite fiction that what we do has lasting value. The reality of course is that - especially in the world of software development - most of what we do today will be obsolete in 5 years time. [Frameworks, tools and languages go in and out of fashion on a weekly basis][a]. Fork Me on Github offers a tantalising promise of permanence, a foot-hold into the future, the chance for memetic immortality. Or perhaps it's just another stupid website badge. [a]: http://www.100percentjs.com/just-like-grunt-gulp-browserify-now/[badge]: https://github.com/blog/273-github-ribbons## Categoriesgithub