# No one Else Cares## 2012/03/10 12:00I've been procrastinating about whether or not to tweak the software which powers this blog so that the `--` which prefixes a blockquote citation automagically get turned into an &#151; (`&#151;`) character. Example...> I've been procrastinating about whether or not to tweak the software > which powers this blog so that the `--` which prefixes a blockquote > citation automagically get turned into an &#151; (`&#151;`) character.  > -- [No One Else Cares][2] You wouldn't believe how long I've procrastinated about this. I've deliberated so long that it has become a matter of identity - intimately tied up with my sense of self. You know those bullshit ads on TV for the latest 5 door hatchback and how your choice of Car is really a statement of who you are? Well replace the car with the humble &#151; (`&#151;`) HTML entity and you begin to understand the idealogical quagmire I've allowed myself stumble into. Am I an &#151; kind of guy or a `--` guy?  One of the most comforting things about this personal predicament is that *No one Else Cares*. That is a lovely thought. While I have become intimately familiar with the rough edges of this blog, no one else cares. That is liberating. I can choose to ignore my inner HTML pedant lobbying for &#151; for as long as I like. [No one else is using the software][1] and for now at least the use of `--` when citing others is good enough for me. It Works For Me &#153;. I don't have to worry about users and what Web Standardistas think, so for now at least, I'm a `--` kind of guy.[1]: Software-for-One[2]: NobodyElseCares## CategoriesPedantry, HTML