# Why Android will (eventually) win.
## 2010/05/08 09:52:00 

<p>It's not even a week since I got my HTC Desire and I've already got the programming bug. The prospect of programming a device with so many real-time sensors makes me positively giddy. Just for giggles I installed JDK1.5, Eclipse and the Android SDK on the kitchen Netbook and followed the <a href="http://developer.android.com/resources/tutorials/hello-world.html">HelloWorld Tutorial here</a>. </p>
<p>That took all of 30 minutes from start to finish. </p>
<p>The SDK includes an Emulator which - on this netbook at least - takes about 3 minutes to start up. That's OK though because once started, you can run and debug any number of times without having to restart the emulator. For more giggles I thought I'd run the App on - you know - an actual Android Phone. This turns out to be really easy. </p>
<ol>
<li>Enable USB Debugging on your Android Phone. On your phone press the Menu button then, Settings =&gt; Applications =&gt; Development =&gt; USB debugging.</li>
<li>Connect the Phone to the PC using the USB cable.</li>
<li>Install the Android Device Driver (if not already installed). From Device Manager, Right-Click 'Android USB Devices // My HTC', select 'Update Driver Software' and browse to where you installed the Android SDK.</li>
<li>In Eclipse, Run or Debug the Application. You will now be presented with a choice of running the App on the Emulator or the Phone. Choose Phone.</li>
</ol>
<p>It's that simple. No need to muck about with Digital Certificates or Provisioning Profiles - just plug and run. Google have made developing for Android relatively easy. The language is Java which is widely used. <strong>There are no hurdles between writing code and seeing that running code on your own phone</strong>.</p>
<p>Right now Apple's lead - its crown jewels - is the App Store. The iPhone's Apps are both more plentiful and better quality than their Android counterparts. But that will eventually change. Why? Because that simple process of writing, then running code on your phone, is <a href="http://developer.apple.com/iphone/library/documentation/Xcode/Conceptual/iphone_development/128-Managing_Devices/devices.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40007959-CH4-SW1">not so simple if you're an iPhone developer</a>.<strong> I don't have to ask Apple's permission before I can start debugging code on my phone. </strong>Think about that. This isn't about the App Store and it's seemingly arbitrary approval process - that's a whole different debacle. Developers hate asking for permission. Digital Certificates. Administrivia. Bullshit.</p>
<p>There's a huge untapped pool of developers who are interested in developing for the new breed of Smart phones but hate Apple's control-freakery. These developers' first taste of mobile programming will be on Android phones, not the iPhone. Where developers lead, users eventually follow (look at the success of Microsoft Windows in the early to late 90's). There are already a few <a href="http://www.hexage.net/">boutique software development houses creating great Apps for Android</a> and there will be more. This might seem like a developer-centric view of the mobile application ecosystem - certainly to date, Apple have been calling the shots - but then they had a 2 year lead and iPhones continue to sell like hot cakes but eventually the balance of power will change. There will be a handful of marquee must-have Apps which will launch on Android first (because - hey - it's easier and quicker) and then iPhone second. Some of those must-have Apps may not even make it to the iPhone or may only be serviced by cheap ad-strewn knock-offs (see today's AndroidMarket). That's when the user's will slowly start switching - it won't be overnight - the upgrade cycle for phones is 1 year (shorter than that of Personal Computers for sure) - the iPhone owner's of today might not switch this year or next but perhaps the following year or the year after.</p>
<p>And they will switch.</p>
<p>Not because of phone features - not because the Android OS is superior to iPhone's OS (it is by the way) , not because of multi-tasking or any of the other advantages Android has over the iPhone, but because of a handful of must-have Apps for which Android will be a first-class host OS. Apple's thinly-disguised disdain for 3rd party developers will be its downfall. Steve Jobs - for once - should take a leaf out of Steve Ballmer's book ...</p>
<p><object height="385" width="480"><param name="movie" value="http://www.youtube.com/v/8To-6VIJZRE&hl=en_US&fs=1&" /></param><param name="allowFullScreen" value="true" /></param><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always" /></param><embed allowfullscreen="true" src="http://www.youtube.com/v/8To-6VIJZRE&hl=en_US&fs=1&" allowscriptaccess="always" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" height="385" width="480"></embed></object></p>

## Categories
android, eclipse, iphone, 