# Recently Modified Files## 2012/03/09 16:32When I'm trying to track down a difficult problem I often find it useful to look at the log files. The question that always arises is: Which log files to look at? If you're working on a system with many moving parts and many layers of middleware it can be daunting trying to figure out which log files to look at. I find a useful exercise is to try to reproduce the problem and if successful, look at the most recently modified log files for clues. The question then becomes: what are the most recently modified log files? I've found this unix command is useful for showing the log files modified in the last hour...    find . -name '*.log' | perl -nle 'if(-M $_<(1/24))print $_'This command uses perl's -M file test to get the age of the file (in days) since it was last modified, so the test `if (-M $_ < (1/24))` will be true for files less than 1 hour old. To find files modified in the last 2 hours, change the test to `if (-M $_ < (2/24))`. To find files modified in the last 1/2 hour ... `if (-M $_ < (0.5/24))` ... and so on. Once you have a list of recently modified log files you typically want to look at the last few lines of each of them...    find . -name '*.log' | perl -nle 'if(-M $_<(1/24))print "$_\n".("="x72)."\n".`tail -10 $_`'... prints the file name and the last 10 lines of each of the most recently modified log files which lets you see at a glance what went wrong. That command does not look pretty and I'd love to know if there's a shorter more elegant way to do this. Either way I hope someone else finds this useful.## CategoriesUnix, Files, Debugging