# String Building in Javascript## 2012/09/10 16:11On page 66 of my dog-eared copy of 'Programming Perl' there's a chunk of codewhich on first reading puzzled me.    print <<'EOF';    All things (e.g. a camel's journey through     A needle's eye) are possible, it's true.    But picture how the camel feels, squeezed out    In one long bloody thread, from tail to snout.                                    -- C.S. Lewis    EOFMy first thought on reading this was "How could that possibly work?" Ihad never encountered [Here Documents][h] before. My programminglanguages prior to perl were Basic, Z80 Assembly, Pascal, Cobol, C,C++ and flavours thereof, none of which supported Here Documents orany kind of fancy string building other than plain-old concatenation. There's more than one way to build a string but I bet most of us(programmers that is) stick with good old concatenation for mosttasks. I've compiled a list of string building mechanisms and orderedthem in increasing order of sophistication/usefulness...    |----------------+-------------------------------------+--------------------------------|    | Mechanism      | Example                             | Languages                      |    |----------------+-------------------------------------+--------------------------------|    | Concatentation | my $str = "Hello " . name;          | Javascript,Java,               |    |                |                                     | C (strcat)                     |    |                |                                     | and pretty much all            |    |                |                                     | programming languages.         |    |----------------+-------------------------------------+--------------------------------|    | Interpolation  | my $str = "Hello $name";            | Perl, PHP. Java and C          |    |                |                                     | support something like this    |    |                |                                     | through sprintf() but it's not |    |                |                                     | as easy as perl-style          |    |                |                                     | interpolation.                 |    |----------------+-------------------------------------+--------------------------------|    | Here Documents | my $str <<EOM;                      | Perl, Unix Shell and others.   |    |                | Hello $name                         |                                |    |                | How are you?                        |                                |    |                | EOM                                 |                                |    |----------------+-------------------------------------+--------------------------------|    | Templating     | $tmpl = Text::Template->new($file); | Most languages have some       |    |                | $name = "walter";                   | (or in perl's case - many)     |    |                | $str = $tmpl->fill_in();            | templating libraries for       |    |                |                                     | generating HTML and other      |    |                |                                     | text documents.                |    |----------------+-------------------------------------+--------------------------------|...so the running order is Concatenation => Interpolation => Here Docs=> Templating. If you're building strings you're probably using oneof these methods. The exact syntax might differ (a `+` instead of a`.` if you're using javascript or java instead of perl) but these arethe mechanisms we use to build strings. It's bugged me for the longest time that Javascript - a language inwhich string building has become really important - doesn't supportHere documents. Right now if you wanted to create the C.S. Lewis quotein Javascript you could do it like this...    var quotation = "All things (e.g. a camel's journey through\n"     + "A needle's eye) are possible, it's true.\n"    + "But picture how the camel feels, squeezed out\n"    + "In one long bloody thread, from tail to snout.\n"    + "                                -- C.S. Lewis\n";... which looks noisier with the addition of all those `"`, `+` and`\n` characters. Or you could write it like this...    var quotation = "\    All things (e.g. a camel's journey through \    A needle's eye) are possible, it's true. \    But picture how the camel feels, squeezed out \    In one long bloody thread, from tail to snout. \                                    -- C.S. Lewis\n";... which is less noisy but still uglier than the equivalent perl code. It's also not part of the [ECMA][2] standard. The other alternative is to use a javascript templating library. There are many - [EJS][e] and (shameless plug) [SXOOP.template][s] are just two. Templating is the most powerful string building mechanism but it can be unwieldy - the string template is usually remote from the code which uses it - and might be overkill for what you want to do. This is where Here Documents come in - they fill the niche between Interpolation and Templating.So Javascript today doesn't support Here Documents - they are just not part of the language spec. I've often been impressed by Perl's source-filters - a feature which lets you extend the perl syntax so you can write perl in any way you like. I thought it would be nice to be able to write Here Documents in javascript and wondered "How hard could it be?" After a couple of hours of hacking I [posted the results on GitHub][gh]. So now you can write code like this...    var quotation = ""/*[[    All things (e.g. a camel's journey through     A needle's eye) are possible, it's true.     But picture how the camel feels, squeezed out     In one long bloody thread, from tail to snout.                                     -- C.S. Lewis    ]]*/;... which is at least less ugly than the previous twoiterations. Obviously there are some trade-offs and drawbacks to this. * It needs a preprocessor - [rhere.js][gh] to process the source file    before deploying. If you're a fan of ExtremeProgramming Neologisms    you'll no doubt dismiss this as a CodeGeneration Smell.  * It's code (albeit only a string literal) embedded in a comment.If you're OK with both of these trade-offs then this might be the Here Document you were looking for. For a huge number of programmers either one of these trade-offs will be unacceptable - and that's OK. You might not like having to 'build' your javascript (see [Rhino][r] for how easy custom build steps can be done using Rhino). Or you might be idealogically opposed to Code-Generation. In short I can think of a few reasons why the Here Document solution I provided might be wrong for you or your current project. And that's OK.Of course, Here documents only become truly useful when combined with interpolation so that you can create a string/template hybrid like this...    var mailMsg = ""/*[[        Dear {salutation},        I wish to inform you that {book_name} is {overdue} days overdue.    Please return the book at your earliest convenience.        The Library.    ]]*/;    ... where `{salutation}` , `{book_name}` and `{overdue}` are variables that are filled in on the fly. Luckily the SXOOP.strings module comes with a `fmt` function which does simple interpolation like this...    var mailMsg = SXOOP.strings.fmt(""/*[[            Dear {salutation},        I wish to inform you that {book_name} is {overdue} days overdue.    Please return the book at your earliest convenience.        The Library.        ]]*/,{saluation: "Sir", book_name: "Javascript: The Good Parts", overdue: 22});`SXOOP.strings.fmt` will take a string and an object (either an object or an array) and substitute `{property}` with the equivalent property of the object or array. Using arrays, the above code could also be written like this...    var mailMsg = SXOOP.strings.fmt(""/*[[            Dear {0},        I wish to inform you that {1} is {2} days overdue.    Please return the book at your earliest convenience.        The Library.        ]]*/,["Sir", "Javascript: The Good Parts", 22]);You can find more information on the [sxoop-strings github page][gh]. [2]: http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/javascriptguide.xml?showone=Multiline_string_literals#Multiline_string_literals[e]: http://embeddedjs.com/getting_started.html[s]: https://github.com/walterhiggins/sxoop-template[gh]: https://github.com/walterhiggins/sxoop-strings[h]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Here_document[r]: Rhino.html## CategoriesJavascript, Here Document, Strings, Templating, GitHub