# The pleasure of not knowing## 2014/09/30 13:16During the last Irish property bubble, there was an ad on TV which showed people on the top deck of a double decker bus. Each person stood up one by one and admitted to not knowing about something or other. The last man stood up and admitted: > I don't know what a Tracker mortgage is. I don't know what Growth Hacking is. I could easily find out if I wanted to know but I don't want to know. I'm quite comfortable about not knowing what this particular thing is because it has only recently impinged the stream of things I read or hear about. If I were to be honest, I even feel a little smug about not knowing what Growth Hacking is. I've added it to the growing list of things I'm peripherally aware of but have no wish to know about. I suspect that along with many other new things, I could die with no regrets about not knowing what 'Growth Hacking' is. I have to wonder at my pleasure in not knowing about the latest "thing" - is it a mark of getting old? Is this what happens when you get old? You become comfortable (content even) in not knowing certain things? In this day and age it takes an effort of will to *not* know what something is. Yes - willful ignorance. I'm writing this in a browser window. I could stop writing the rest of this sentence right now and - with just a few keystrokes in another browser window - google it. But - perversely - I won't. I'm sure that if Growth Hacking *is* important I will come to know about it in the fullness of time but for now I'm quite happy not knowing what it is. No. I would not like you to google that for me.## CategoriesThe Internet