# Unix Golf## 2012/03/06 17:44> Is there a word for feeling like you should have known something much > earlier? Because I get that feeling all the time working with Unix.  > -- [Twitter / @walter](https://twitter.com/walter/status/177066714582880260)So I've been getting my hands dirty with the expressive power of`find` and `xargs` piped together when I chance upon `find` piped to`perl -nle`. **BOOM!** Suddenly it feels like I'm mainliningfile-manipulation - like I've discovered some secret back door into batchfile processing. That combination is so powerful it feels positivelyseedy :-)To output a list of all jar files and the classes contained therein(useful for java programmers) ...    find . -name '*.jar' | perl -nle 'print "$_\n".`jar -tvf $_`'... The `find . | perl -nle` combination addresses an entire class of tasks for which I would previously have written much longer perl scripts. The above command does the same thing as this [Perl script][2] I wrote about earlier this year. I feel slightly ashamed that I've been doing it wrong all these years but - hey - I've never really spent enough time on Unix so I won't beat myself up too much. Unix always makes me feel like a newbie but at least I'm still learning and that's good. The `find` command is also available in [CygWin][] for Windows which you should install if you're on Windows.[2]: Perl-Goodies-List-contents-of-all-jar-files.html[CygWin]: http://www.cygwin.com/## CategoriesUnix, Perl, Files