# We Don't Need No Stinking Widgets## 2012/01/31 00:32Dave Winer makes a surprising discovery about the Twitter Widget he installed on his Blog...> A few days ago I installed a widget that makes it easy to follow me on > Twitter. When I looked at it in Firebug I was surprised at how they did > it. They basically framed the whole page, just to get a tiny little > thing in there. What are they doing? I have no clue. I don't like it. It > looks nefarious.  > [Widget Wars!][1]If he's not happy with how the widget works (I wouldn't use any widget that framed my site) he should uninstall it. To hell with 'Follow me on Twitter' and showing blog readers how many Twitter Followers you have. I'm curious why he installed it in the first place. If someone reads my blog I don't necessarily think they need to follow me on twitter. My blog isn't a recruitment drive to get more twitter followers. The blog is what it is - me doing my own thing, carving out my own niche on the web. I'm not going to invite you to be friends with me on Facebook or follow me on Twitter because frankly, they're side-shows. For better or worse, this is the main event.Installing Twitter and Facebook widgets on your blog is a hedge. It betrays a lack of confidence in your blog and your writing. It's needy and undignified. We Bloggers - We're better than that. p.s. The Twitter link at the bottom of each page is the only concession I make to social networking. It's a simple plain old HTML link to share the page. That and RSS are the only ways I 'Publish' the blog. [1]: http://scripting.com/stories/2012/01/30/widgetConflict.html## CategoriesBlogging