# The Matrix: Revolutions
## 2003/11/25 23:00

### Gate Multiplex Cork, Saturday 22nd November 2003
#### Dir. Wachowski Bros. USA 2003

Pity the poor actors in 'Matrix Revolutions'.  It can't be easy,
acting against props - a balloon stuck on a 15 foot pole where a Robot
should be; a blue-screen where a futuristic cityscape should be; Keanu
Reeves where a real actor should be.


The only actor in 'Matrix Revolutions' who doesn't look like he's
acting against special effects is Nathaniel Lees as 'Mifune'.  I'm
guessing the Wachowskis must have throw wooden sticks at him or
something to get such a reaction.  His crazed look is the only
visceral clue to whats going on on-screen during the over-wrought
'siege' scene.  I could probably have watched Lees stomp around in his
armoured suit blowing things up, for longer than I'm willing to admit
to.  If George Lucas has any sense he should hire him.

Kudos also to Carrie ann Moss for having to carry an emotional scene
with Keanu Reeves.  Keanu is required to act sad in this particular
scene but he's (conveniently) got a blindfold on so its up to the girl
to do all the hard work.  Carrie does the best she can with an
over-ripe death scene.  I got all choked up anyway - but then again -
I'm strange.

Its actually funny watching the first matrix after seeing its sequels.
Its funny how much
running-up-and-down-fire-escapes-while-being-shot-at is involved.  It
all looks so quaint.  I don't remember that from the first viewing -
all I remembered was the special-fx and a pretty good story.  At its
heart though, the first matrix movie was a plain old actioner (and a
fine one at that) with a philip-k-dicksian twist.  'Reloaded' and
'Revolutions' are muddled and overwrought and should probably never
have been made. There is nothing in either sequel to match the Kung-fu
training scene from the first movie - pure gold.

## Categories
Movies
