# Adaptation
## 2003/04/22 19:22

### Kino Cinema Cork, Saturday April 19th 2003
### Dir. Spike Jonze, USA 2002

[Recursion][1] is a wonderful thing. It is an elegant mathematical
principle used heavily in computer programming. You can see recursion
at play in fractals or in the leaves of a tree.  The stem, a great
artery trailing off into smaller veins, each vein leading to smaller
and smaller channels. The Leaf itself mimics the pattern of the tree
from which it came, the end point of one of many branches, each
mirroring the pattern of a previous branch. Recursion scales well. Its
one of those basic principles without which there wouldn't be life -
or matter itself, for that matter.

Watching 'Adaptation' is like watching a movie from the front row of
the cinema. It's a movie that puts itself under a microscope, more
specifically it puts one aspect of itself under the microscope - its
screenplay. A movie which draws this much attention to itself better
be good. It better bear up to scrutiny. 'Adaptation' does this and
more.

First let me say 'Adaptation' is a *seriously* feel-good movie. Its
not 'Hollywood' feel-good, its reading-a-great-book feel-good or
catching-up-with-a-really-smart-friend-you-haven't-seen-in-a-long-time
feel-good. (OK - enough dashes). Nicholas Cage (in excellent form)
plays Charlie Kauffmann, the screenwriter who brought us 'Being John
Malkovich'. Cage is unrecognizable from his recent roles. He has had a
tendency to pick roles which play on his 'Nicholas Cage'-ness (The
Rock, Con-Air, Face-Off) but here in this movie you forget completely
who you are watching. Charlie Kauffman the main protagonist of this
movie, is also the movie's screenwriter and the movie tells of the
struggle to write the screenplay of the movie. It may seem like a slim
premise doomed to limp self-referential humour and Hollywood in-jokes,
but Charlie Kauffman is intelligent, funny and painfully aware of the
hole he has dug himself into and the effort needed to get out of
it. Think of Woody Allen at his best and top that and you have some
idea of who's behind the wheel of this screenplay. (I imagine Woody
Allen must be pretty envious).

Kauffmann, lays out his stall early in the movie - an earnest writer
with one hit to his name, struggling to adapt an earnest but plotless
novel ('The orchid thief' - never read it but probably in same genre
as 'Bridges of Madison County') to screenplay. Kauffmann wants to do
the novel justice but can't fathom how it can be made into a
movie. 'Adaptation' follows Kauffmann's struggle and it quickly
becomes apparent that what we are watching is the end-product of that
struggle - a movie which should have been called 'The orchid thief'.

The movie isn't just about Kauffmann, that would be too daring. 
Meryl Streep and Chris Cooper give great performances as the New York
novelist and Florida poacher in a warm, tender and unlikely love story
which occasionally skims 'Bridges of Madison County' territory.

Adaptation' may be the first example of a meta-movie, a movie about
itself and as such it is not without faults, but given the daring
tightrope walk performed for much of the movie, it's churlish to dwell
too much on them. The ending may not be as satisfying as hoped, things
unravel once we get to New York (inevitable with such a tightly wound
spring of a movie) but it is a lot of fun - I may even watch it again
(I religiously never see movies more than once - there have been a few
exceptions - 'Life is beautiful' and 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon'
but only when I've seen something that my wife *has* to see). There
are few movies I recommend unreservedly and this is one of them. Go
see.

[1]: http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=recursion

## Categories
Movies
