# The Core
## 2003/04/06 19:50

### Gate Multiplex Cork, Saturday March 29th 2003
### Dir. Jon Amiel, USA 2003

The Core is a bit of a patchwork quilt of a movie.  It's a composite
of recent sci-fi/doomsday movies such as 'Deep Impact', 'Independence
Day' and 'Armaggedon', with a dash of 'Fantastic Voyage' and some
'Lost in Space' (not the remake) thrown in for good measure.  Truth
is, unless your an SF fan (like myself) you won't want to see this if
you've already seen any of the above. Given that 'The Core' borrows so
heavily from other recent movies, it is still surprisingly
entertaining.


The trailer didn't bode well (the dialogue is risible even by the low
standards of SF movies) but it didn't feature Stanley Tucci.  Tucci's
performance is one of the things that redeems this movie in the latter
half.  There are some pretty cool set pieces in the first half that
allayed any fears I had going in, but once the dust settles it's Tucci
that makes the rest of the movie watchable, Tucci's Dr. Zimsky is the
most memorable smarmy professor since Jonathon Harris' Dr. Zachary
Smith from the original 'Lost in Space'.

This movie is at its best in the first half hour, there are some
excellent scenes full of portent.  The scenes in London and the
Shuttle scene are pure entertainment.  The scenes in the latter half
of the movie just can't live up.  When the movie tries to scale up it
doesn't work ...  At a cafeteria in Rome, a waitress gets a static
shock from a coffee machine, we can see the sparks of static as she
approaches the machine, a minute or two later we are treated to the
spectacle of the colloseum being destroyed by high-energy
lightning... frankly the coffee machine scene has more weight, than
the overtly CGI rendered colloseum destruction - you'd think people
were sick of seeing world monuments destroyed by now.

'The Core' pegs itself firmly between Mimi Leder's 'Deep Impact' and
Michael Bay's 'Armaggedon', aspiring to the gravitas and dark
undertones of 'Deep Impact' while at the same time trying to provide
the popcorn thrills of 'Armaggedon'.  Given the disparity in tone
between these two movies, it's inevitable that it fails on both
counts.  'The Core' works best when it's true to itself.

Like 'Deep Impact', 'The Core' tries its hardest to respect the
audience.  The science in this movie may be complete hokum but it is
<i>consistent</i> hokum.  The latter half of the movie turns into
'Fantastic Voyage' complete with psychedelic scenery along the way.
At this point, it's only Tucci's narcisistic voice memos for his
forthcoming book (reminiscent of Alan Partridge's memos-to-self) that
provides laughs for the rest of the movie.  Aaron Eckhart (brilliant
in "in the company of men" - if you haven't seen this movie - go rent
it out today) and Hilary Swank the male and female leads never really
appear to have anything other than a working relationship so once
Tucci is out of the picture the movie just fizzles out.

## Categories
Movies
