# Kill Bill
## 2003/10/14 03:00

<img src="images/xanadb/movies/killbill.jpg" align="right">
### Cork Opera House, Monday 13th October 2003
#### Dir. Quentin Tarantino, USA 2003

If you believe the regurgitated press-kit that passes for opinion in
movie reviews these days, 'Kill Bill' is Tarantino's "Epic".  So why
does it feel like the kind of movie he might have dreamed of making
when he was 17 years old ?

The Cork Film Festival crowd enjoyed this more than I did so I
naturally wonder - is it me ? Am I getting old ?  There's something
else too - its Tarantino. He's Regressing.  Gone is the just-got-laid
swagger of 'Pulp Fiction'. The loquacious 20-something who'd try and
talk you out of your knickers has been replaced by a geeky teenage
fan-boy who'd rather just watch from afar.

What were forgivable fan-boy indulgences in his other movies have
become the main-course in this movie.  The scene in 'Pulp fiction'
when Bruce Willis is choosing his weapon ? That scene gets a few
laughs and lasts just a couple of seconds, but in Kill Bill we have to
watch Uma Thurman ooh and ahh over a collection of samurai swords for
what seems like hours.

'Kill Bill' is an invitation into the inner sanctum of Tarantino's
mis-spent youth. As such, it feels downright creepy. It's 100% tribute
and not a lot else. Maybe he needs to get this out of his system - a
form of regression therapy - fair enough - but to foist this upon the
world ? Yechh!  That said, as usual, Tarantino can make you see and
hear through his eyes and ears the way no other director can.  Even
when what he wants you to see is repellant, you can't help but watch.
Rated 18's, 'Kill Bill' is strictly for 18s and under.

## Categories
Movies
