# Lost in Translation
## 2004/02/13 20:30

Lost in translation arrived on these shores with considerable hype a
few weeks ago.  That hype has since been tempered by mixed accounts
from friends who've seen this movie, so my expectations weren't high.
Lost in translation turns out to be a fairly decent movie - especially
if you're a fan of Bill Murray.

Murray-philes will love the 'santori shoot' scene in the first few
moments of the movie, which sees Murray doing a whiskey commercial
under japanese direction.  This is Murray's best film ever, it should
have been called 'Essence of Bill Murray' - the movie reeks of him.
Murray's choice of films has been impeccable over the past few years
(lets forget 'charlies angels').  Contrast this with Steve Martin's
movies.  Murray has been on a steadily upward curve since the early
eighties while Martin flatlined sometime around 1992's "Leap of
faith".  Murray's 'Scrooged' and Martin's 'Planes trains and
automobiles' both from 1988, represent an rough intersection point. In
'Lost in translation' Murray talks about becoming a father and the
simple joys of parenting - but its never schmaltzy or sugary. Murray
sheds a tear but you don't feel an urge to walk out of the cinema -
This is something Steve Martin will never be able to pull off.

'Lost in Translation' isn't so much a 'coming of age' movie as a
'lapse of maturity' movie. In the opening scene Murray is being taxied
from the airport to his Tokyo hotel. Still bleary from the long flight
he watches with detached bemusement as the frenetic Tokyo night blazes
by. Murray looks comfortable, its the detachment of a foreigner in a
strange land, his bemusement is a luxury only travellers and the
young-at-heart can afford. Later in the same movie, we see the same
scene, the same exquisite depiction of being lost in the reverie of
your own thoughts when Scarlett Johannsen takes a similar taxi ride
across Tokyo.

_"This is hard"_ Murray declares as he launches into a karaoke
rendition of Roxy Music's 'More than this'.  It is this stroke of
genius that raises 'Lost in Translation' above the current crop.  A
song by Bryan Ferry - a man who has built a career on affected
world-weariness - sung tunelessly by Bill Murray who looks frankly too
weary to bother affecting anything.  'More than this - there is
nothing' Murray sings with a rueful sidelong glance at his young
companion Johansen.  Both comical and poignant - the scene underscores
beautifully, Murray and Johansens ephemeral relationship.

The soundtrack to 'Lost in Translation' is excellent, the closing
track, 'The Jesus and Mary Chain's "Just like honey" is perfect.  As
much as I like 'American Splendor' and hope it gets something on Oscar
night - I think Bill Murray should walk away with the 'Best Actor'
gong. Its only right.

## Categories
Movies
