# The Matrix Reloaded
## 2003/05/22 08:00
<img src="images/xanadb/movies/monicabellucci.jpg" alt="monica bellucci" align="right"/>
### The Reel Cinema Cork, Wednesday May 21st 2003
#### Dir. Andy and Larry Wachowski, USA 2003

I hope Monica Bellucci gets more screen time in the next movie.  There
is about 5 to 10 minutes of screen time during Matrix Reloaded that is
magical.  Lambert Wilson (as Merovingian) is banging on about cause
and effect and how cursing in french is 'like wiping your arse with
silk' and sat next to him is Monica Bellucci as his wife 'Persephone'.
As far as I know this is Bellucci's first english-speaking film and I
expect we'll probably see more of her in the future.  The Wachowski
brothers have a knack of casting unknown raven-haired beauties (first
Carrie-Ann Moss, now Bellucci).  As for the rest of the movie, it's
not a total disappointment.

It has it's flaws but so has the original.  The wachowskis have been
given too much free rein on this installment.  Someone really should
have looked over the script.  Every second character speaks in a
clipped oblique fashion so it appears as if they're saying something
important when they're really saying nothing.  There's also an overuse
of the word 'Anomoly'. The most glaring example is 'The Architect's
monologue near the end of the film, strangely enough this guy looked
and sounded like a real-life software architect. I listened really
really hard (so hard I missed what happened after his monologue
finished) but for the life of me I still haven't a fucking clue what
he was talking about - anyone like to fill me in ?  The wachowski's
seem to have borrowed a few tricks from Scientology literature:
browbeat the plebs with roundabout arch phrases that say nothing at
all but give the impression of being pearls of wisdom from a figure of
authority.  Now I've read a little philosophy in my time and I think
#it's a good thing* to float philosophical ideas in a summer
blockbuster, but they did this so much better and with less pretension
in the original movie.

The wachowski's love comic books and this movie has probably the best
depiction of human flight in any movie. You get a glimpse of what
total freedom of movement in 3 dimensions means when Neo rockets into
the air then pirouettes mid-air before rocketing back to earth -
reminded me of Alan Moore's first MarvelMan story. Where Bryan
Singer's X-Men movie borrows from the Claremont era late 70s marvel
aesthetic, the wachowskis are more Vertigo/Epic - darker, grittier and
more pensive.

> In the 80's Marvel released the Epic imprint for mature audiences -
> In marvel's case this simply meant nudity and cursing. DC followed
> suit with the (better quality) Vertigo Imprint (Swamp Thing, Sandman
> etc).

While for the most part, visually stunning, this film is just too
long.  There is pointless exposition in the first hour involving
characters in Zion.  This should have just been cut.  Morpheus is a
weaker character (too passive) in this installment.  That said, Matrix
Reloaded looks stupendously expensive and is a real feast for the
eyes.



