# The Last Samurai
## 2004/01/19 17:00

The Last Samurai has 'prestige' written all over it.  How prestigious
is 'The last samurai' ?  If it was a kitchen appliance it would be an
[Aga Stove][1].  The Last Samurai is one of those big dumb prestigious
movies that Hollywood makes just in time for the Oscars.  The hope
always is that the 'prestige' factor will blind critics and the public
to the 'big and dumb' factor.


Being Irish, I am acutely sensitive to patronization and this is an
unashamedly patronizing movie.  This time its the japanese samurai who
must rise up and bear arms against oppressive maudlin patronization by
the west.  If the goal of cinema is to make you empathize with the
people on screen then 'Samurai' succeeds on one level - Halfway
through the movie, when Cruise begins eulogizing the Samurai's way of
life, I too felt like spearing myself in the stomach.

We Irish have long memories.  Transgressions which may be ancient
history to others, can still sting like a day-old wound to us.  Tom
Cruise's merciless mauling of the Irish accent in 1992's 'Far and
Away' is not something that can be easily forgiven.  Those wounds will
take decades to heal.  Cruise may think he's deflecting some of that
bad feeling onto Billy Connolly (I'm told Connolly's character is
supposed to be Irish - who'd have known ?) but two wrongs don't make a
right.

Samurai has some unintentionally funny moments.  The scene where
Cruise is dressed by his beatiful host (japanese actress 'Koyuki' -
she's too good for Tom Cruise) in samurai armour is filmed with all of
the awed reverence demanded by it's star.  We get close-ups of Cruise'
chest and torso, but the scene has the legs kicked from under it, when
Cruise emerges into daylight in full samurai armour looking more like
a 5 day old lobster than a samurai warrior.

Its churlish to knock a film that does exactly what it says on the
poster.  'The Last Samurai' - its the Aga Stove of current movie
releases.

[1]: http://www.aga-ranges.com

## Categories
Movies
