# X-men 2
## 2003/05/08 08:00
### Reel Cinema Ballincollig, Tuesday May 6th 2003
#### Dir. Bryan Singer, USA 2003

I think it might be time for me to hang up my hat and admit that I'm
just too old for this kind of movie. X-Men 2 is a
disappointment. Bryan Singer has taken the larger-than-life comic book
heroes and made them into live action characters but something has
been lost in the process. Singer is from the same generation as
myself, he professes a love of comic books but that love isn't evident
in this film.  Singer has suggested that this is the 'Empire Strikes
back' of the X-Men series. That doesn't hold any water.

All of the elements of the comic book are here but somehow it doesn't
add up. The pacing of the film feels pedestrian, as if Singer felt it
was sufficient to make a feature-length episode of 'Mutant-X', the
dire 'X-men' clone that appeared on TV shortly after the success of
the first 'X-Men' movie. A lot of this movie feels overstaged given
that very little really happens. The interaction between the mutants
(Night Crawler likes Storm, Wolverine likes Jean Grey, Jean Grey likes
Scott) is cringe inducing and I found myself shifting uncomfortably in
my seat for the last half-hour (this doesn't need to be over 2 hours
long). It's been a long time since I read an X-Men comic so maybe
Singer's just being faithful to the comic book - maybe I'd find
reading the comic book equally embarassing.

What's appalling is that so much money has been spent on this film but
the script is so lacking and the execution so merely adequate.

The opening scene in the white house is brilliantly done but not worth
the price of admission.  Watching this movie made me feel old and I
hate that. After watching 'Attack of the Clones' last year I was like
a giddy 8 year old again. Movies of this genre don't need to be
intellectually or emotionally stimulating, they just need to create a
believable illusion of other-wordliness for 2 hours. If there is an
X-Men 3 I won't be watching.

## Categories
Movies
