# American Splendor
## 2004/02/12 19:00

If ever there was a movie that needs to get out more - American
Splendor is it. This film needs a big distributor behind it - it needs
to be seen. No - rephrase that - people need to see 'American Splendor'.

Seeing arthouse films in a city like Cork: a smallish city on the
southern coast of Ireland: a smallish country at the remote end of
Europe, means that every film you see comes with a lot of baggage. You
basically know how you are going to feel throughout the movie and how
you should feel when the lights go up. I picked up a flier for
'American Splendor' when I went to see 'The Shape of Things' in the
Kino a few weeks back. I can't remember what was on the flier -
'Triumphant' might have been one of the words used, but I decided I
had to see 'American Splendor' based on its subject matter alone - an
Autobiographical account of a comic book writer - Harvey Pekar. Now
some people might find the subject matter off-putting - my wife for
one - but 'American Splendor' is one of the funniest films I've seen
in a long time.

'American Splendor' is pretty much faultless, tonally pure, impeccably
acted cinema.  Whats more you'll leave the cinema with a smile on your
face.  Like its subject matter - Harvey Pekar - 'American Splendor' is
the bright but underprivileged kid of the current crop of movie
releases. Seeing movies like this makes me wish I was a film
distributor so I could get this into mainstream theatres. Whatever
preconceptions you have about Arthouse films or this film's subject
matter - put them aside and go see 'American Splendor' - you'll be
glad you did.

## Categories
Movies
