# Dawn of the Dead (Remake)
## 2004/03/29 22:30

In Zack Snyder's remake of George Romero's "Dawn of the Dead", the
dead walk the earth and lay siege to a shopping Mall. Anyone who
questions the plausibility of this scenario should visit Wilton
shopping centre on a Sunday afternoon. Reviewing 'Dawn of the dead'
can be pointless. It is - after all - a movie about flesh-eating
Zombies - what more do you need to know ? The only relevant question
is "Is it a _good_ flesh-eating zombie movie ?".

Your typical flesh-eating zombie movie audience is an astute crowd.
More demanding than your casual chiller/slasher audience, they know
why they've paid their money at the box office - for pure visceral
thrills you can't beat a good zombie movie. The opening scene doesn't
disappoint. A heart-pounding, nail-biting damsel-in-distress scene ,
it isn't clever or innovative but its bloody effective. This is
straight-forward horror-by-numbers but its brilliantly executed and
beautifully shot in washed-out 6am-o-vision. Its a relief to see good
old-fashioned horror that isn't ironic and doesn't wink knowingly at
the audience every 5 minutes.

Visually, 'Dawn of the Dead' looks like a rainsoaked watercolour. The
colors look bleached. Every frame looks overexposed, like pixelated
news coverage thats been sliced and diced too many times. The movie
opens with the heroine (a nurse) returning home from work. That
evening, she and her husband are oblivious to the tantalizing snippets
of news coverage on radio and TV. The next morning all hell breaks
loose and as the opening credits roll, she is staggering through
woods, shellshocked and many miles (literally and figuratively) from
home. As the credits fade the remaining protagonists (Ving Rhames as a
cop and a handful of others) come into play. Snyder could have been
predictable and given each character a chance to tell their story but
there are more pressing issues. These people are possibly the last
remnants of humanity, on the run from flesh-eating zombies. You don't
need to know their backstory to care about them. From the opening,
'Dawn of the Dead' is lean and light-footed. Halfway through the
movie, one of the characters undergoes a pauline conversion. We don't
see the catalyst for this change of heart but it doesn't
matter. Character development takes a back seat and thats a good
thing.

In tone, 'Dawn of the Dead' is similar to that underappreciated
classic "Tremors". The claustrophobic atmosphere, the minimalism. It
even features Matt Frewer (of Max Headroom). A few years ago I read
Richard Matheson's "I am Legend" and mistakenly thought it was a
vampire book. Only after seeing this movie have I realized its a
Zombie book, one that Romero must surely have read. Romero's
screenplay has been lauded as a diatribe against Consumerism. I'd say
that was a bluff. Setting 'Dawn...' in a shopping mall was probably an
economic decision rather than an Ideological one. I imagine Romero
laughing up his sleeve "Hey, remember that bullshit about making a
statement about consumerism ? They bought it !".

With barely a teenager in sight (OK there's just one), and its
back-to-basics approach (If jan-de-bont had made a horror movie
instead of 'Speed', this would be it -see footnote), 'Dawn of the
Dead' marks a refreshing departure from the world-weary teen horror
movies of recent years. The best flesh-eating zombie movie of the
year. So far.

Footnote: Jan de bont *did* make a horror movie (The Haunting) in 1999
and it was awful. If he had made a horror at the peak of his powers 5
years earlier, it might have been different.

## Categories
Movies
