# A review of Mel Gibson's "The Passion"
## 2004/03/18 08:00

Overheard in the foyer after a screening of 'The Passion'...

> That Mel Gibson has some vivid imagination

What compels people to go see 'The Passion' ?

There were a couple of phases I went through before I finally
succumbed to the grim inevitability and found myself sitting
expectantly in the cinema on a rainy tuesday night. 

 1. *Denial*. I was in the U.S. when 'The Passion' opened a few weeks
 ago. I was jetlagged and couldn't sleep so I channel-hopped through
 the early hours. Its amazing the way entertainment news is treated on
 US tv. The same gravitas is attributed to entertainment news as to
 regular news. I watched the 'coverage' of the opening night - the
 'New Yorker' movie critic calling it a 'sickening death trip' -
 footage of clearly traumatized christians who had been badgered into
 going by their bible-thumping religious leaders. I decided this film was not for me.

 2. *Indifference*. At this stage I felt I knew enough about the film
 not to be bothered seeing it. By the time I got back to Ireland the
 controversy was in full swing. Back in Ireland - talk about this
 movie is more muted. It is - after all - only a film.
 
 3. *Submission*. Never, ever underestimate the 'Zeitgeist'
 factor. The problem with controversial films is this: Any film
 that has critics and the public divided must have some kernel of
 worth. Whatever its views on Jews or its lurid violence - the film
 itself must be good if it has people talking. It must be worth
 seeing - at least to know what all the fuss is about - right ?

Wrong - lest you find yourself in the same dilemma - let me spare you
the grief. *Do not go see this movie*. I don't think I've ever said
that in any other review but I'm saying it here. If you do go see it,
you are rewarding bad movie-making. Its not entertaining - its not
even 'art' (unless you mistake subtitles and graphic violence for
'art'). 

Once I had decided to go see 'The Passion' the next dilemma was
etiquette. What is the etiquette for watching 'The Passion' ? Is it
acceptable to bring Popcorn and Coke into the theatre ? Would vinegar
and stale bread be more appropriate ? At any rate I decided to go for
the usual bucket of popcorn and large coke and suffer the withering
looks of my fellow viewers.Thankfully the soundtrack wasn't drowned
out by the rattling of rosary beads and muttered prayers either.

The shooting of the movie has spawned a lot of stories. My favourite
is the story of 1 crew member and 1 cast member (Jim Caviezel, who
plays Jesus) being struck by lightning - Caviezel was apparently
struck by lightning while on the cross. You hear stories like this and
think of Steve Martin in 'The Man with two Brains'. Steve has just
hooked up with Kathleen Turner after the recent death of his first
wife. Standing before his deceased wife's portrait he asks for her
blessing. "If you object to me seeing this woman, just give me a sign
and I'll finish the relationship". At that moment the windows blow
open and lightning strikes, a ghostly wail echoes through the room and
Martin braces himself against a chilling wind. The tempest subsides
and, looking windswept and dishevelled, Martin delivers one of the
best lines of his career. "A sign - Any sign" he pleads insincerely
before removing the portrait from the wall. I imagine Gibson in
Martin's shoes. On the set - every day - pleading for a sign - a
blessing for his movie. Based on the stories circulating about the
shoot - God is a discerning movie critic. 

'The Passion' is a 'Boys-Own' interpretation of the last hours of
Christ. You can imagine Gibsons own childlike glee at seeing blood
splurt from the palms of Christs hands. 'The Passion' is what gets
made when you give a 14 year old boy a movie camera and tell him to
make a film about the crucifixion of Christ. All subtlety and nuance
is lost and what you get are lurid shots of torn flesh and
blood-soaked cobblestones. It isn't enough to see Judas' remorse
expressed by acting - we also have to see him being hounded to death
by werewolves and leprechauns. 'The Passion' owes more to directors
like John Carpenter and James Cameron than to Martin Scorsese.  

The counter-argument is that there is no room for subtlety or nuance
in brutal torture and crucifixion, but with movies as with all forms
of art - everything is in the execution. 'The passion' is woefully
pedestrian and imaginatively bankrupt in its execution. It has the
naffest use of special effects you are ever likely to see and a fair
amount of schlock horror moments. Schlock Horror is not bad in itself
but the use of such techniques in a movie about christ shows
astoundingly bad taste - I really can't believe (nor relate) how naff
this movie is. Here are some examples that had me cringing visibly. 

 * A crow alights on a cross and suddenly pecks out the eyes of the
 unrepentant criminal. This is pure 70s schlock horror. Think 'The
 Omen' or 'Carrie' but then remember this is a film about Christ.

 * As Christ dies a raindrop falls from above. The camera follows the
 raindrop from behind as it falls to earth. A shot stolen wholesale
 from the bomb-view scene in 'Pearl Harbour' in which the camera
 follows a bomb as it spirals downward toward an airplane carrier. The
 rationale of using such stock sfx techniques in this context is hard
 to understand. Is this supposed to be a 'money-shot' ? Its use is
 jarring and annoying. Mel - enough with the hollywood pyrotechnics!
 this is the death of a major religious figure - you asshole. 

 * As the movie ends we find ourselves inside a tomb. There is a low
 rumbling sound and a shaft of light pierces the darkness. Lying on a
 plinth is a white cloth covering a body. The cloth collapses slowly
 as if concealing a rubber doll that has been punctured (I'm not
 making this up - its in the movie). The camera pans to an upright
 figure - its Jesus. He looks mean and resolute. A stirring ta-da-dump
 musical score begins to pound. The camera pans down his body to
 reveal the inch wide holes in his hand - we can see the hairs on his
 legs through the holes as he strides out into the light. Its hard not
 be reminded of Camerons 'Terminator' series. The pounding music, the
 resolute look on his face. You get the impression this is not so much
 the risen son of god, but someone whose payback time has come. 

'The Passion' is above all else - naff. And this is unfortunate given
the subject matter. If there is a hell, Gibson is going straight to it
when he dies. Unfortunately, all of the things which make 'The
Passion' such a bad movie are overshadowed by its violence and its
alleged anti-semitism.  I didn't see the violence because I'm
squeamish and tend to look away when violence is iminent so you could
argue I only saw 1/2 the movie.  I didn't see anti-semitism because I
thought the portrayal of jews was even-handed - there were good jews -
there were bad jews.  Just like every other religious group. 'The
Passion...' is dangerous not because its anti-semitic but because it
sets a worrying precedent.  It has proven that any film, no matter how
pedestrian and hackneyed, can pull in audiences if it gets people
talking.  Some friends asked me what I thought of the movie - I told
them pretty much what I say here.  They _still_ wanted to see it.

'The Passion...'  - it may well be vivid, but it is completely lacking
in imagination.

## Categories
Movies,


