# A review of Quentin Tarantino's "Kill Bill Vol II"
## 2004/04/23 06:00

On the evidence of KBV2, Quentin Tarantino - Hollywood's 'enfant
terrible' - needs adult supervision. He spends so much time joshing
with his audience, it's a wonder he didn't call this 'Kill Bill: part
deux'. Kill Bill is a _homage_ to the Kung Fu genre much like
'Airplane' is a _homage_ to Irwin Allen disaster movies... Homage
is probably the wrong word. All this joshing may serve to disarm
critics but it can also disengage audiences.  Already ripe for parody,
Tarantino turns the kitsch knob up to 11 in the middle of the movie, a
chapter titled 'The cruel tutelage of pai mei' which tells the story
of The Bride's training in China.

By a mile, the most fun to be had in Kill Bill volume II is watching
Gordon Liu's 'Pai Mei' stroke his wizened beard and laugh that
sadistic zoomed-in laugh. My giddy inner 10 year old kept pleading 'do
that again'. They may be cheap laughs but they're all the heartier for
the airy relief this scene offers after a gruelling live burial (if
you're claustrophobic or prone to panic attacks, you may want to give
this movie a miss). 

Showing a gifted ear for dialogue in his early scripts, Tarantino has
since developed an acute ear for his own writing. Can this be the same
man who wrote 'True Romance'? Everyone in Kill Bill speaks in clipped
gravelly tones that mimic David Carradine's languid delivery. The
question I kept asking myself was 'Is Bill world-weary or is he just
pickled?'. Everyone does their best to sound like The Architect from
Matrix Reloaded, though you can't really blame the actors, given the
dry beef-jerky morsels of dialogue they have to chew on. A notable
exception is Michael Parks who plays 80-year-old mexican pimp (Esteban
Vihaio) with lascivious relish - not so much a Lion in winter as a
Jackal on his last legs - he has the dulce lived-in patois of a man
untroubled by scruples or morality. When he intones "I should warn
you...I'm very susceptible...to...flattery' it doesn't even sound like
tarantino-ese and that's some achievement in a tarantino movie. Parks
is filmed in close-up, he has a lazy meandering eye which might once
have been a survival mechanism. Parks' Esteban looks like a special
effect - I was reminded of Oliver Reed's final scene in Gladiator and
then of Yoda from star wars - parks could play an 80-year-old Yoda -
with cataracts. 

The biggest disappointment of Kill Bill volume II is Michael
Madsen. The man exudes menace from every pore but has to take shit
from an al-pacino-wannabe boss. He doesn't even get to chop anyone's
ear off. In kill bill he's just stuck in the middle. Daryll Hannah
ends her part in the movie as a whirling dervish of flailing arms and
mindless rage. Tarantino - consumate geek that he is - probably
couldn't help adding a sly reference to her death scene in 80's
high-brow sci-fi flick 'Blade Runner', while I - seasoned film geek
that I am - can't help but pick up on it. 

The trouble is - all these knowing references don't add up to much. I
get the impression Tarantino is scrambling for a new audience of
20-something filmgoers for whom 'Reservoir dogs' doesn't spring to
mind at the mention of his name. Tarantino's films have always been
'of the moment'. He's always used his 'enfant terrible' status to tap
into the zeitgeist that 20-somethings are so attuned to, but you have
to wonder if his latest creation could thrive outside the
reality-distortion field that is Miramax marketing.

Kill Bill's biggest sin is it's closing scene - a standoff (of sorts)
between the Eponymous Bill and The Bride with no name (actually she
does have a name, it's on the tip of my tongue ... nah can't remember
it). People were shifting uncomfortably in their seats when David
Carradine delivered a eulogy on the mythology of Superman (DC's
superman - though Nietzche's superman might have had a better
response). It's a little distracting when you realize that Bill (like
all the other characters) is just a voice box for tarantino's
obsessions. The monologue - intoned with all the gravitas carradine
can muster - is like a loud fart at a dinner party. So out of
character is this eulogy that It might have been forgivable if
tarantino had just frozen the action, come on screen, delivered the
monologue in person and shouted 'roll camera' when done. 

I know why Bill tried to kill The Bride. Hearing your own clipped
gravelly tones parrotted back at you by your lover and everyone close
to you. Well, it's enough to make you want to shoot someone in the
head.

## Categories 
Movies
