# Intolerable Cruelty
## 2003/11/06 23:00

### Gate Cinema, Wednesday 5th November 2003
#### Dir. Joel & Ethan Coen USA 2003

The prologue doesn't bode well.  Geoffrey Rush hams it up as a beverly
hills tycoon who's just caught his wife sleeping with the pool man.
Geoffrey Rush doesn't do 'Funny', so he (and most other actors in this
movie - with the exception of Zeta-Jones) does 'Hammy' instead.  Hammy
isn't funny. It might have been funny for 5 minutes in 1962 but its
time has long passed.

Worst offender for Hammy acting goes to George Clooney.  Clooney has
the air of a man comfortable with his good looks and willing to pull
goofy faces and act the goon without a hint of self consciousness.
Clooney would be funny if the overriding impression wasn't of a good
looking man trying to be funny.  Clooney is a reincarnation of Cary
Grant, he's handsome and affable.  He also does a credible
double-take, exhibits all the facial tics and has impeccable comic
timing but somehow it just doesn't add up to 'Funny'.  Clooney asks
Zeta-Jones what another lawyer thinks of him.  Zeta-Jones replies
nonchalantly "He thinks you're a buffoon". You will too.

Catherine Zeta Jones purrs and sashays her way through the movie with
a barely concealed disdain for the pantomime around her.  With her
immaculate complexion and photoshop-perfect features, she is every
inch the film star and perfect for the role.  Too bad she and clooney
can't elevate this film above silly mediocrity.

Let's just hope 'Zany' humour doesn't make a comeback.

## Categories
Movies
