# Do not blog this!
## 2004/10/21 08:00

Common wisdom would have us believe we've pretty much nailed down what
this 'Blogging' thing is all about. We've heard first hand accounts
from the A-List bloggers themselves about the ins and outs, and ups
and downs - the emotional life of blogs. But given that there are now
over 4 million weblogs, the accounts of a handful of celebrity
bloggers can hardly be considered representative.  What is blogging
really like ? What is it like for the little guy ?  The hardy, obscure
blogger who, starved of the oxygen of a regular readership, ploughs on
joylessly year after year, posting pictures of his/her cat, rambling
musings on everyday life or snippets of Emacs Lisp source code,
oblivious to the yawning chasm between his deathless prose and any
interested readers.

 In the heart of every such blogger lingers the grubby conviction that
obscurity is just a passing phase and that real-soon-now readers will
beat a path to the perfectly validated RSS 2.0 feed.  The said blogger
will occasionally ponder his lot and wonder why he has no readers.  It
surely can't be that his writing isn't good enough - he writes
brilliantly and with great flare [sic] - has always had a gift for
it. No that can't be it.  It can't be that his interests aren't shared
by a great many people - why, there must be tens of thousands of
computer programmers with an interest in writing Scheme scripts for
graphics manipulation.  The question 'why have I no readers?' is like
an open sore. You can leave it alone and it will scar, but you keep
coming back to it.  The obscure blogger envies and despises celebrity
bloggers. He can't fathom how they have so many readers.  Is it by
virtue of their writing ? - it can't be - some of them even mix up
their 'then's and 'than's.  They must have gained their readership by
some nefarious means - there can be no other way.

I've been blogging for 2 years now and have only a tiny readership to
show for it (bloglines reports 6 subscribers - and one of them is me)
. What have I been doing wrong ?  Although I've been blogging longer
than most of today's 4 million+ , I plainly don't _"get it"_.  But as
a disgruntled wannabe celebrity blogger with a readership you can
count on one hand, I think I'm uniquely qualified to offer advice and
solace to fellow blogging nobodies.

First of all lets lay our cards on the table and confess to what
blogging is really about - Attention seeking.  When you start a blog
you will go through various phases of attention seeking, all of them
repugnant, juvenile and (in retrospect) embarassing.  You will send
emails to a-list bloggers, breathlessly extolling the virtues of your
blog.  You will zeitgeist-surf, posting on topics that are currently
hot (hint at the time of writing, 'Red Sox' and 'Podcasting' are sure
bets).  You will submit links to your blog on sites such as slashdot
and boingboing, helpfully forewarning your hosting provider of the
deluge of hits that never materialize.  You will pay money to haloscan
and google to advertise your weblog. When those advertising programs
don't yield the hits you expected, you will spend days devising new
Ads, and fork out even more money for even fewer hits.  Eventually you
will discover the tyranny of page-rank and increasing your website's
page-rank will be your obsession.  In fact you will do just about
anything, to get linked to, in the first furtive months of blogging.  
Accept this.  
Revel in it.  
Eventually you will seek and find enlightment.  

This will be hard to accept (in fact you won't accept it - not right
away anyway), but these simple truisms will help you adjust to life in
the rarified lows of the blogosphere (the air down here is thin and
sulphurous).


 1. Nobody wants to see pictures of your cat/dog/goldfish.
 2. Nobody wants to use your scheme code for adding rounded corners to images because...
    1. There are 6.4 Billion people in the world
    2. A few million of these are Programmers
    3. Of these millions, 45,000 are Scheme Programmers
    4. Of these 45,000 , 850 are GIMP Scheme Programmers
    5. Of these 850 GIMP Scheme programmers, 849 are better GIMP Scheme programmers than you.
    6. That leaves just you...
    7. ...johnny-no-mates
 3. Nobody cares what you think of the current political scandal or
 who you will vote for in the upcoming election.(in fact there was one
 reader who _did_ like your cat pictures but unsubscribed because
 you got on your soapbox once too often).

 4. All attention seeking efforts on your part will be rebutted or
 will backfire and you will be exposed as the attention-seeking
 wannabe you so desperately are, but will nevertheless revel in the
 exposure even though you are made to look like a fool and your name
 is sullied forever.

 5. Nobody wants to see pictures of your cat/dog/goldfish.
 6. ...not even your mother

Of the 4+ Million blogs, it's estimated that a large proportion are
dormant or dead. They were created by people who wanted to try out
this 'blogging' thing as a creative outlet. They were an exercise by
bored housewives or teenagers who thought they had something to say to
the world but quickly found out the world wasn't listening, so they
gave up. 

It takes real strength of character to keep writing on the web when
noone is reading. The barriers to reading are low - I don't charge for
content. In fact, to have written as much as I have, and have so few
readers, is something of an achievement.You could say that 'Obscurity'
is my forte (if you think that sounds like something a fake columnist
for [The Onion](http://www.theonion.com) might write, then
you have no idea. Some people think The Onion, is _just_
satire. For me it's so much more.) All of the celebrity bloggers say
that in order to be a successful blogger, you must be different. You
must occupy a special niche in the blogosphere. I think I've found my
niche - and it is obscurity itself. Sure, there are millions of
obscure blogs, but no one has been as doggedly obscure, despite
efforts to the contrary, as I have. Most normal human beings would
have given up by now.

I've only come to this realization recently and it has made me change
how I blog and how I think about blogging. Now that I have found my
niche in the blogosphere, I want to protect it. There is a certain
dignity in obscurity, and a nobility in being so persistently
obscure. I've come to realize that it is not something to be ashamed
of but something to cherish and be proud of.

So gentle reader, I have just one request of you. If by some chance
occurence you have come to this webpage seeking "persistent obscurity"
I ask just one favour of you.  Leave me in peace.  Do not link to this
page.  Resist the temptation to click the 'blog this' toolbar button
in your browser.  After all, I have a reputation to live up to now.

## Categories
Blogging
