# A review of Bernardo Bertolucci's "The Dreamers"
## 2004/04/19 08:00

### Kino Cinema Cork, Sunday April 18th 2004
#### Dir. Bernardo Bertolucci, France

I had heard that 'The Dreamers' was about a sister/brother/other
relationship between 3 movie-goers united by a common love of cinema
and that it was set in Paris in 1968. Armed with this knowledge, I
took my seat in the auditorium with a twinge of dread in my heart,
fearing another 'Cinema Paradiso'. Nothing makes me more uncomfortable
than watching movies in which people watch movies. The skinflint in me
feels cheated and I find myself fighting the urge to stand up and
shout "Hey I paid good money to watch a movie, not watch some actor
watch a movie ! - why should they have all the fun ?". I need not have
worried too much. Bertolucci's films aren't <i>about</i> anything in
the same way that Life isn't _about_ anything. Which must be a
headache for the film's distributors and publicists.

It's Paris 1968, the students are marching in the streets, outside
there's a riot going on but Bertolucci is more interested in the riot
of hormones going on between his 3 young protagonists. And with a cast
like this, who can blame him ? Louis Garrel plays 'Theo' a young
middle-class student who lives in his parents bohemian, lived-in
apartment. 'Theo' is a potent mix of brooding good looks and roguish
mischief that recalls Daniel Day Lewis' 'Thomas' from "The Unbearable
Lightness of Being". 'Theo' might be a younger 'Thomas'. He lives with
his sister 'Isabelle' played by Eva Green. Isabelle's eyes sparkle and
dance. She has a fiery elemental beauty that makes every other
raven-haired screen goddess (from Isabelle Adjani to Monica Bellucci
to Jennifer Connolly) seem like a pale imitation cast from the 'Eva
Green' template. Like all great beauties, Isabelle's beauty isn't
conventional. At times she looks every bit the movie geek she pretends
to be and at other times she is luminescent. Never less than
completely captivating, Eva Green's 'Isabelle' (and I may be biased,
given my predilection for raven-haired beauties) is - above all else -
what makes "The Dreamers" so damn watchable. Theo and Isabelle meet
American student Matthew at a protest march. Matthew is played by
Michael Pitt who looks like Leonardo Di Caprio, talks like Leonardo Di
Caprio and on the evidence here, the boy can act too. If I was
Leonardo Di Caprio I'd be worried.

Bertolucci excels at capturing the wisps of experience - the barely
remembered fragments of life - that are too inconsequential to be
called 'events'. Early in the film, Isabelle, Theo and Matthew are
having dinner with their parents. Isabelle kisses her parents and
brother goodnight. As she leans across the table to kiss Matthew
goodnight, a wisp of her hair catches fire from a candle. She quickly
outs the flame and the kiss is postponed. "Are you alright ?" Matthew
asks her with barely disguised longing. "Yes" she answers and retires
to her room. The scene lasts an instant yet it is remarkable for its
unremarkableness. It is so natural and unaffected, it might very well
have been an outtake which, in the hands of a lesser director, would
have ended up on the cutting room floor.

The infuriating thing about "The Dreamers" is that Bertolucci preempts
any appraisal of his film. The film is as much about appreciation of
film as anything else. Theo and Matthew do what students do, they
drink and talk and argue about everything from music to books to
film. Hendrix vs Clapton, Keaton vs Chaplin. In the opening scene,
Matthew is sitting in the front row of an arthouse cinema. So he can
be first to receive the images, while they are still fresh from the
screen, not the postage-stamp sized second hand flickerings that the
projectionist sees. The irony is that parts of "The Dreamers" seem
claustrophobic, the camera is everywhere, the characters become
exhibitionists, behaving as if they are in a Bertolucci
film. Bertolucci's eye is everywhere and the effect is
distancing. Even if we the audience watch "The dreamers" from the
front row, we aren't getting a first hand account but a
hand-me-down. It may be a hand-me-down from a great master but it is a
hand-me-down nonetheless. The lush visuals are rubbed in your
face. Bertolucci seems to be saying "Look how much richer my
perception is... how better my eyes are than yours". Bertolucci
preempts any such criticism in an argument between Matthew and Theo on
the relative merits of Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin. Matthew
denounces Chaplin as an egotist, a director's director. Theo defends
Chaplin..."Yes but he could make you see things like you were seeing
them for the first time". I imagine Bertolucci aligns himself closer
to Chaplin than to Keaton. 

Its hard not to talk about "The Dreamers" without using platitudes
like "sensual" and "lush". Smarter and more literate than any trite
review (even this one), "The Dreamers" is clearly a critics movie and
I wish this wasn't so. I wish that arthouse and mainstream cinema
weren't so clearly delineated, that more people could see a film like
"The Dreamers" , digest it, savour it, be confused by it or just let
it wash over them like any other movie. Cork city has 4 multiplex
cinemas each with 5 or 6 screens and one precariously-funded arthouse
cinema (the Kino), so there are between 21 and 26 cinema screens in
Cork city. Yet this week there are only 14 movies showing (and only 9
of these have evening shows, the remaining 5 are matinee-only
childrens movies). 

Where is the freedom of choice in that?

## Categories 
Movies

