# San Sebastian 2005
## 2005/04/04 23:00

So its 2pm and we're sitting in a cafe near Reyes Catolicos. Ursula is
relaxing after a long walk along Andoretta. Me, I want to get up and
back out on the streets. I want to walk every street of this city. To
recall as many memories as possible. I used to live here, a long time
ago, in what now seems like a previous life. I haven't been back to
San Sebastian in 12 years so the city and I have a lot of catching up
to do and 4 days just isn't enough.

I was nervously excited about going back, even if it was only for a
few days. Would the city have changed ? Were those fond memories of a
uniquely beautiful place, just my mind playing tricks on me ? What
would Ursula think of the place ? My first assurance was when the
receptionist at the hotel in Bilbao (where we stayed the first night
of our short break) said we really should see San Sebastian. No one
ever says that about Bilbao. I was in a seriously nostalgic mood and
brought U2's Achtung Baby as a musical accompaniment to the journey. I
never liked U2's music before this album and have never warmed to
anything they've done since. But this place and that music are
inextricably sealed in amber. As we weave our way from the motorway
into Antiguo 'Utraviolet' is playing and I'm so giddy my foot is
shaking on the accelerator (its my first time driving a
left-hand-drive manual and I'm wearing a new pair of size 12
ultra-wide shoes that make it hard to accelerate without braking at
the same time, so I shouldn't really be allowed drive anyway). Antiguo
is where I used to live (in an apartment on Calle Portuene just 10
minutes walk from the beach) and I begin to recognize shops and
buildings and there is the strange feeling that I am home. This is my
city and I feel a sense of belonging I've never felt about Dublin (the
city where I grew up) or Cork (the city where I've lived for the past
10 years).

San Sebastian hasn't changed. It's still beautiful. Still
thriving. The best example I've ever directly seen of 'human
flourishing'. Paris, Barcelona, Amsterdam, London, Hong Kong: none of
these cities (beautiful though they are in their own way) can hold a
candle to San Sebastian. If anything the city is even more beautiful
than I remember. I am still really smitten by this place. 

We spend our first morning on spanish soil, walking around Bilbao. We
visit the Guggenheim and its very pretty but I am itching to get to
San Sebastian. This will be a recurring theme throughout the next few
days. We visit hendaya, St jean de Luz and Biarritz and they are all
very pretty but all we want to do is get back to San Sebastian. By 2
oclock in the afternoon we are on the road to San Sebastian. I'm
feeling adventurous so we take the coast road that weaves endlessly
along the high cliffs, dense woods and through sleepy seaside towns
between Bilbao and Donostia. The road is narrow in many places and
makes Ireland's boreens look like motorways, but the sun is shining
and I'm starting to enjoy the drive. We brought just 3 CDs. Air:
Talkie Walkie, Scissor Sisters, and U2: Achtung Baby. Scissor Sisters
is a guilty pleasure - just great music to drive to. Some great tunes
and some cheesy 80's synth pop that sounds maddeningly familiar. 

I was 21 when I landed in San Sebastian. I spent more than a year
there and its fair to say it was a formative experience. Strange too
in that while I returned to Barcelona twice since leaving Spain
(having originally visited it while I lived in San Sebastian), I've
never returned to San Sebastian until now. Coming back has been a real
bitter-sweet experience. At one time I thought of this place as
home. I fell in love with the place and still am in love with it even
now. I haven't been in touch with the people I knew at the time, many
of them were students or have since moved to towns outside san
sebastian. During my short stay, a U2 lyric keeps popping into my
head.

> Time is a train...  
> ...makes the future the past.  
> I'm standing in the station...  
> ...my face pressed up against the glass.

One of the best things about going back has been seeing the city
through Ursula's eyes. She is as enamoured as I am. We stroll along
the east side of the river as far as the Maria Christina bridge and
sit for a few moments on a bench. The best way to appreciate this city
is on foot. I know this place like the back of my hand, not the names
of streets but their scents and the feeling of walking them. The old
town is where the tourists go but the rest of the city is where the
real beauty is. It stretches to Antiguo and Aiete, the sedate
neighbourhoods behind the Palacio Miramar. Even the eastern district
of Gros is beautiful in my eyes. We visit the towns along the spanish
and french coast but it is only so that we can return to San
Sebastian. All of those pretty french towns are just places. San
Sebastian is much more. It is alive.

## Categories
Travel
