# Flora and Fauna
## 2003/06/23 01:00

I wrote this sometime last autumn during a writing binge. In total I
wrote 12 short stories of uneven quality in the space of a month. I
may even put some more of them up here depending on how the
editor_that_lives_inside_my_head is feeling.

## Schull, West Cork, August 2002.

I'm struggling with words. We are sitting on a bench overlooking
Schull harbour. It is a beautiful summer's day. Our one year old, Dee,
is asleep in her buggy, Eve is beside me. Yesterday we attended a
relative's christening and last night we stayed in a local hotel. It
was by all accounts a very enjoyable evening. It was a long drive down
from Cork City so we decide to make the most of our time in Schull. 

The weather is balmy. Later on (when Dee awakens) we will lay out a
rug on the grass and bask in the sunshine. There are boats of all
sizes moored here, and many boats passing through, I barely notice
them. 

There is a bush just a few feet from the bench where we sit. I don't
know what type of bush it is. Its leaves and flowers are
beautiful. That's all I can say about it, and that's what is bothering
me. I would love to describe it more eloquently, but I simply don't
have the vocabulary. Words fail me. This inarticulacy is maddening. It
is by no means the first time I've felt it. In fact, it's something
I've struggled with for much of my life.

---

D.H. Lawrence was a great man for descriptive prose. He knew
intimately, the flora and fauna of his native Yorkshire, and describes
them eloquently in many of his novels. He made it his business to know
by name, colour, texture and smell, the elements of his
surroundings. Lawrence was a great writer and applied this same rigour
to describing his internal landscape - the human heart and soul. As an
aspiring writer, in my youth, I read a lot of literary fiction. In
fact I read nothing but literary fiction, eyeing with derision the
bestseller lists of the day. I had long since given up on my first
love, science fiction, and from the age of 15 started on a diet of the
leanest literary fiction (classic and contemporary). I read Tolstoy's
'Boyhood, Childhood, Youth" when I was 15, Orwell and Huxley when I
was 17. At 19 I read Hermann Hesse's 'Demian' and felt a kind of
awakening. I devoured all of Hesse's other books and read a lot of
Nietzche, Jung and any outsider literature I could find. In my early
20's I read Martin Amis, Milan Kundera and D.H. Lawrence among
others. 

By this time I was completely dejected. All of the above novelists are
_great_ writers, whose keen intellect and mastery of the written word
are unmatched. As an aspiring young writer struggling to find my own
voice and style, I could only envy their considerable achievements,
their staggering intellect, the precision with which they measured the
human soul. I simply knew in my heart that I could never be that
great, I would never have that same gravitas. At the same time, I was
convinced of my own greatness, the way all young aspiring writers
are. I knew I had great thoughts but just lacked the eloquence to put
them into words. I was aware of a hidden world of depth and meaning
buried beneath the everyday world and suspected this was the same
world that the great writers knew. 

Around this time I was living in Spain and met an American writer, I
can't remember his name. He was a veteran of the Korean war. I taught
English as a foreign language to his wife, a beautiful woman from
Malaga. At the time, he was the only published writer I had ever met,
I was in awe. I'll always be grateful for the hospitality,
understanding and patience he showed me. He proof-read some of my
short stories and gave me some helpful suggestions. Thanks to his
help, one of those stories later got published. My first, and to this
day, only published work. 

Had I not longed so desperately to be a great writer myself, I would
still be reading and enjoying literary fiction today. Completely
disheartened I made a conscious decision in the early 90s not to read
any more literary fiction. There were a few exceptions, Douglas
Coupland's haphazardly styled ramblings and some of Dermot Bolger's
novels, but, for the most part, I gave up reading anything which I
suspected would arouse envy.

Shortly after deciding to give up literary fiction, I picked up by
chance, Geoff Ryman's 'The Child Garden'. It was science fiction, but
not as I remembered it. Ryman's novel isnt populated by rocketships
and laser guns. It's a bizarre story of a world changed by genetic
engineering and global warming with a love story involving a young
woman and a lesbian polar bear. Ridiculous as this sounds, Ryman
actually handles the inter-species romance credibly. I also began
reading best sellers, just to see what all the fuss was about. I had
heard of a new author who had just made a multi-million deal with a
Hollywood studio for the rights to his best selling first book. I
picked up Allan Folsom's 'The Day after Tommorrow' just to see how it
was done. My suspicions about such best sellers, were
confirmed. Folsom's book is a page-turner all right, but as a snapshot
of the human condition, it compares poorly to the likes of
'Immortality' or 'London Fields'. But that was never its goal. 

The species of fiction known as the thriller attracts readers, with
the promise of the visceral thrills of a Hollywood movie. It is an
honest form of fiction and a lucrative one for its writers. It's too
easy for aspiring writers to disparage such work. Exploring this
avenue further, I picked up Michael Crichton's 'Timeline' at an
airport before a long flight home. Now Crichton has created a genre
all his own. The Crichtonesque novel reads like a Coke-addled pitch to
Steven Spielberg. I haven't read any of his pre-Jurassic work so I
don't know if Crichton now consciously writes in this style or whether
Spielberg adopted Crichton's style. Crichton's 'Timeline' is the last
book I read which made any stylistic impression on me. It is polished
cinematic writing with enough hard science to leave your head
spinning.

---

It's been many years since I read literary fiction and I can't say I
miss it much. It's also been many years since I felt the urge to
write. The urge has reawakened, along with the fumbling for words.

Which brings me back to the bush. The unnamed, acme bush. I'm still
struggling for words, it has lustrous green leaves and glorious red
flowers but there is another quality I can't express. Eve hears the
cogs grinding, and throws me a lifeline. She leans in to me and says  
"It's called a 'Red Fuchsia'"  
he name doesn't fully capture it's essence but 'Red Fuchsia' will
 have to do for now.

_The End_

## Categories 
Fiction
