# Love Actually
## 2003/10/22 23:00

### Cork Opera House, Saturday 18th October 2003
#### Dir. Richard Curtis England 2003

This was an advance screening shown during the cork film festival. The
editing was incomplete in the first half of the movie and stock music
appears to have been used (unless they really plan on including Dido's
overexposed 'here with me' in the final cut).


It's been a long time since I last went to see a Romantic Comedy in
the cinema.  Romcoms aren't my cup of tea.  The first movie my wife
and I ever saw together was 'Pulp fiction'.  The kind of movies I've
seen that I'd love my wife to see aren't romantic comedies. They're
black-as-night comedies like 'In the company of Men'. You'll gather
then that I wasn't completely receptive going into 'Love Actually'.

Richard Curtis, the man who gave us the movie accompaniment to 'Wet
Wet Wet's "Love is all around" is about to unleash another monster in
the form of 'Girl Aloud's cover of the pointer sisters "Jump".  Any
sane person should run for the hills now.  I'm sure Curtis would like
to think of himself as Britain's answer to John Hughes - only smarter.
Billed as 'The Ultimate Romantic Comedy', Curtis lays out his stall in
the opening minute of the movie with a voice-over by Hugh Grant,
talking about how he goes to the arrivals hall in Heathrow whenever he
feels low.  He talks about September 11th and how the phone calls made
by passengers on that fateful morning, weren't about hatred or
pledging revenge, they were about love.  Cut to an inelegantly wasted
Bill Nighy murdering 'Love is All around'.  It's a sly statement of
intent on Curtis' part, a quick-change of tone from gravitas to
pantomime comedy in seconds.  "It's not all laughs you know - but I
don't do that serious stuff" - he seems to be saying.  Curtis is
obviously an intelligent man and has an acute sense of how far he can
go with the serious stuff.  Fortunately, he also knows what his
strengths are and plays to those.

If Bill Nighy's washed up pop star act looks familiar (Nighy looks
like he walked straight in from the 'Still Crazy' set), thats probably
the point.  This is after all a Romantic Comedy starring Hugh Grant.
So given this premise, we can expect an air of cosy familiarity all
round, Hugh Grant as charming twit - check.  Emily Thompson as the
physical embodiment of empathy - check.  Colin Firth as an emotionally
distant bastard - check.  I could go on.

'Love Actually' is Curtis' Xmas film.  Like weddings, Xmas is one of
those emotional flashpoints.  Its a contrived plot device but this is
very much a contrived film.  And for the most part - it works. Despite
the presence of Hugh Grant and a criminally wasted cameo by Billy Bob
Thornton (you cast Billy Bob Thornton as the President of the USA but
only give him a minute of screen time - arrgh) , this film will win
over all but the die-hard cynics.  I swear Curtis has found a way of
distributing dopamine through photons.  I put up a good fight but in
the end, 2+ hours of middle-to-low-brow comedy and feel-good christmas
cheer finally won me over.  Though - like a Xmas office party, you'll
wonder if it was really all that good the morning after.

By the way - it hardly needs saying but - If I was won over, even for
a short time - this will probably be huge.

## Categories
Movies
