# A review of Fritz Lang's "Metropolis"
## 2003/02/28 05:00

### Kino Cinema Cork, Wednesday February 25th 2003
#### Dir. Fritz Lang, Germany 1927

It's impossible to go see Metropolis in a cinema without feeling like
something of a film student. Metropolis is...

 1. German
 2. Over 70 years old
 3. Black and White
 4. Silent

For the record - I'm not a film student and don't plan on becoming one
soon. This was my first viewing of Metropolis.

My worst fears about seeing this movie were confirmed in the opening
scene.  It's Shift change at the factory. One group of workers shuffle
listlessly into the factory while another shuffle out. There are
hundreds of them, their heads are stooped low, their eyes lifeless.
Their movements are slow and mechanical - an exagerrated robot-like
march. The image is Iconic, there is no pretense of
realism. Metropolis is full of symbolism but devoid of nuance. From
that opening scene, the movie announces itself as a film to be
appreciated rather than enjoyed.

Metropolis is a very <i>Germanic</i> film. Its hard not to be reminded
of the writings of Nietzche or Herman Hesse.  It has that same
firebrand individualism. The problem with watching such a film in 2003
is that every scene is Iconic and Symbolic. It's difficult to see the
real movie under all the Iconography. No doubt it wasn't always like
this and I can't (nor will I pretend to) imagine what it was like
seeing this movie when it first opened. I came to see this movie to
get past all of that and to be honest I was disappointed.<p> Why does
Metropolis inspire such awe and reverence ?

It can't be the set design - only film students and set designers go
see a movie for its set design and even for them that must be a
chore. And it can't be it's exploration of technology's impact on
society.  The film's handling of this is heavy-handed and these themes
are explored more subtly in other formats.  I can only guess that the
film's now considerable age plays a part in it's exalted status.<p>
Before anyone goes accusing me of chronocentric bigotry let me state
that I love 'It's a wonderful life'.  That film may be over 50 years
old but it is an absolute joy to watch and always will be. Metropolis
has not aged so well - sadly.

Watching Metropolis is like sitting through a political lecture - the
movie feels professorial in tone and I left the cinema feeling like a
browbeaten economics student.  Charlie Chaplin's "Modern Times"
handles the same themes with considerable more flair and finesse.
There is a lightness of touch in Chaplin's film which is sadly lacking
in Lang's movie.

Truth is - I feel amiss about disliking this film. I feel I must be
fair to it - I can't just dismiss it outright which is why I'm taking
great pains to nail this coffin shut. You must frame your thoughts
very carefully when dismissing a film that has such universal praise.

Metropolis the movie is populated by archetypes rather than
characters. There is the hero 'Joh Frederson' - a young man troubled
by the modern world. There is the iconic father 'Freder': depicted as
some kind of Nietzchean demi-god presiding over the city. Gustav
Frolich exudes a fierce individualistic streak down to the buttons on
his immaculately tailored twead jacket. Brigitte Helm who plays the
saint-like 'Maria' is the only actor who gets to flex muscle playing
(later in the film) the robot. Leading a mob through the streets of
metropolis , her head rolls about as if resting on ball-bearings. Her
limbs twitch mechanically.  She is clearly having a lot of fun and it
is a joy to watch.

You can't watch Metropolis without being reminded of other movies - it
has clearly had enormous influence on other film-makers over the
years. Andrew Niccol's "Gattaca" - with it's lush art-deco sets, it's
muted gold and sepia-toned colors - is a thinly veiled homage to
"Metropolis". Niccol seems to be saying

> Mr. Lang would you like to take a look at my project ? - About that
> film you made a while back - I've added color and dialogue

Both movies are Clever and Beautiful to look at. Both films tackle
Science and it's social impact. However - neither feels like a movie
you can love - they are both emotionally unengaging.

It may sound strange but I really like "Gattaca" for precisely the
same reasons I don't like "Metropolis". It's an astute science fiction
film with gorgeous sets, a suitably arian hero and a smouldering
heroine. Metropolis is all of the above but it belongs to a different
time and (crucially) a different mindset.

For me - ultimately - Metropolis is a 'compass' movie. A movie you see
to establish your bearings in the wider world of Cinema, your like or
dislike helps define you as a movie goer. That's not what I'd planned,
I had hoped that Metropolis would be so much more. 

## Categories 
Movies
