# Solaris
## 2003/05/07 19:12

### Kino Cinema Cork, Sunday May 4th 2003
### Dir. Steven Soderbergh, USA 2002

Steven Soderbergh's Solaris is a remake of the 1970's russian sci-fi
flick.  I remember watching the original on TV one rainy sunday
afternoon when I was 12 years old.  Back then, Solaris seemed like a
long movie where nothing much happened, and what was worse - it was
subtitled.  How time changes people.

My memory has dimmed but it appears that Soderbergh has tried to stay
faithful to the original.  George Clooney is a grieving psychologist
who lives in an apartment furnished from a 1975 habitat catalog.  He
lives in an airless semi-vacant city and walks rain soaked streets
teaming with people he doesn't see.  This is a vision of the future
circa 1973.  Not a utopia or a dystopia, just a numb, impersonal place
with minimalist office blocks and apartments.

Clooney's character Chris Kelvin is going through the motions after
the death of his wife.  Clooney plays this really well, he appears to
be both emotionally raw and numb at the same time. He has the haunted
look of a man who has grieved too long but can't stop grieving.  The
grief itself has become both intoxicating and sickening - a comfort
blanket.  Kelvin gets a call from a former colleague working on a
remote space station.  Strange things have been happening on board,
and Kelvin heads off to investigate.  Things look ominous for a brief
instant as Kelvins shuttle approaches the space station but thankfully
we are spared the excrutiating shuttle-docking-with-a-space-station
scene that was so prevalent in early 70s sci-fi movies ('Silent
Running', '2001 A space odyssey' etc).  Although this movie is slow
paced Soderbergh never makes it boring. Solaris is a mood piece.  It
is 80% mood, which is not to say that 80% of it isn't there.

The crew of the space station hover above a distant planet.  It's
upper atmosphere is aglow with great plumes of electromagnetic
radiation like the Aurora Borealis.  The plumes form arcs and
rivulets, the planet itself appears like a giant brain with clusters
of gas like synapses sparking off one another. The planet and it's
pyrotechnic atmosphere exert an enormous influence on the state of
mind of the space-station crew. So much so that one of them kills
himself and the remainder are haunted by hallucinations of lost loved
ones.  The soundtrack to Solaris plays a key part in depicting the
lucid dream like state and the memories that haunt clooney's character
as he drifts between sleep and waking. Solaris is a film teeming with
questions about memory, self-perception, consciousness and free will,
but unlike 'Waking Life' which covered similar ground in a similar
non-linear fashion, you never feel brow beaten. Soderbergh isn't
trying to educate, he's just trying to create a mood in which these
questions can be dwelt upon.

Although Solaris is about love, romance and loss, and stars George
Clooney, I'd be slow to call this a chick flick or a date
movie. Although it bears the trappings of a sci-fi flick, the sci-fi
setting is merely used as a plot device (like the best SF) to explore
deeper themes of memory, loss, identity and the private myth-making
that is part of any relationship. It is a solemn movie about
remembering lost loved ones and the bitter-sweet pangs of sorrow and
remorse.  Everyone gives pitch-perfect performances (Clooney and
McElhone are excellent).  Natasha McElhone is the real star of this
film.  She is a statuesque beauty standing shoulder to shoulder with
Clooney.  Radiant is not the word to describe her. McElhone is
positively irridescent - on the evidence here, expect to see her
selling makeup products soon.  Nothing about this movie is out of
place, there are no jarring moments. Although it may be 80% mood,
Soderbergh has used his keen sensibilities to create a movie that is
100% true to itself.

The trailer for this film is deceptive.  You might think this is a
one-note movie about humans vs aliens but you're in for a pleasant
surprise.  My one quibble isn't with the movie itself but the time
that the Kino Cinema is showing this at (5:00pm).  Solaris is best
viewed late in the evening (after dark at least) and preferably on a
rain-soaked night.

Go see.

## Categories
Movies

