# Cypher
## 2003/11/26 21:00

### Kino Cinema Cork, Tuesday 25th November 2003
#### Dir. Vincenzo Natali USA 2002

'Cypher' stars Jeremy Northam and (bizarrely in 2nd billing) Lucy Liu.
It is an act of great generosity on Lucy Liu's part to appear in this
movie.  Tom Cruise would never dream of appearing in a movie like
'Cypher' whereas Miss Liu (a true star) has no such qualms.  Both the
movie and Miss Liu are all the better for it.

Jeremy Northam plays a suburban dweeb hired as an industrial spy by a
technology behemoth.  Northam comes across like Richard Gere's dorky
younger brother.  Northam's character must assume a new identity, is
equipped with spy periphernalia and dispatched to record conference
proceedings throughout the US.  So far, so Philip k. Dick.  The
conferences themselves are dull affairs, the speakers droning through
the motions, uttering covey-isms.  One such conference is titled
"Profit and Loss forecasts for Cheese and Dairy producers" - surely a
monty python reference.  Just when you think this is going to be a
movie about steganography (a world first - surely ?) it veers in
another (not unexpected) direction with the arrival of Lucy Liu's
'Rita Foster'.  Part of the pleasure of watching 'Cypher' is wondering
where it will go next so I won't spoil the plot.

Like the movie's protagonist, 'Cypher' the movie seems to be suffering
an identity crisis - unsure whether its an arthouse film or a B movie.
Strangely this confusion works in its favour.  It succeeds because it
maintains a delicate balance between both.  'Cypher' clothes itself in
the cast-off special fx and costumes of recent SF extravaganzas, but
the special FX are employed for bemusement rather than astonishment.
Designed to raise a wry smile rather than make you spill your popcorn.
There are tinny echoes of 'Mission Impossible', 'The Matrix', 'Men in
Black' and 'The day the earth stood still'.  'Cypher' lives up to it's
name, its hard to decipher if this is a Sci-Fi B Movie with art-house
pretensions or an Art-house film with ideas below its station.  If
you're a fan of either, you won't be disappointed. And of course - it
features Lucy Liu.

## Categories
Movies
